# Diving Into Dameo
(This is a placeholder title. Edit away!)

## Introduction

Hello, dear reader!

This book is a sequel to the first book, ‘Meet Dameo!’ That time we got to know
the game, and now we are planning a deeper dive into it.

The idea of the second book is to show the beauty and inexhaustibility of this
game, the intentions and plans of the sides, and the originality of the players'
thinking through examples of whole games or long fragments of them. Consistency
in carrying out the plans of the players and a vivid battle of minds constitute
the beauty of any intellectual game.

It is very difficult to comment on Dameo games because of the huge number of
moves and variants. Only a computer program can handle such a massive amount,
but we are not going to complain and will try to study and understand this
little-explored game more deeply by means of ordinary human manual analysis.

We assume that the reader is already familiar with Dameo's rules, but we will
still briefly describe them. Sufficiently experienced players can skip this
description and proceed to the next chapter.

### Rules

So, the rules of Dameo are to a certain extent the same as the rules of
international draughts, but there are three major differences, namely:

a) a simple checker moves forward in three directions; a king moves in 8
directions, like a queen in Chess to any available number of cells.

b) a simple checker may jump over one or more other checkers of its own colour,
provided that the field ahead is free; the king does not participate in a line
jump (red arrows below on the diagram).

c) all captures in Dameo are straight (orthogonal) only; a simple checker may
capture forward, backward, or sideways by the short leap; a king may capture by
the long leap.

All three differences are shown in diagrams 1a, 1b and 1c.

The rest of the rules (the rule of majority capture, the rule of Turkish strike)
coincide with the rules of international draughts.

1a ![1a](diagrams/1a.svg)

1b ![1b](diagrams/1b.svg)

1c ![1c](diagrams/1c.svg)

An important distinguishing feature of Dameo is the fact that two kings always
defeat a lone king. Due to this, you will win with even a small advantage. This
leads to a high percentage of decisive games compared to international draughts,
which tends to draw in high level play. The construction of the winning position
is shown in the first book in the chapter ‘Two kings against one’.

Well, that's the end of the introductory part and let's move on to the main
content.
